Update pages (#42)
Vanilla-OS/handbook: _posts/2022-12-09-install-flatpaks.md

published: true
---

Flatpak is a universal package format for Linux desktop applications. It works on most Linux distributions, Vanilla OS included. Flatpak applications get distributed as bundles, similar to native packages, but they are sandboxed and can be updated independently from the host system.

## Install Flatpak

- The preferred way to install Flatpak is to choose it in the **First Setup**
wizard. If you didn't do it, then you can install it manually using the transactional shell:

```bash
sudo abroot exec apt install flatpak gnome-software-plugin-flatpak
```

- Reboot once the installation is complete.

- Alternatively, you can install Flatpak inside the Managed Container using `apx`:

```bash
apx install flatpak
```

> In this case, you will always need to run Flatpak commands inside the Apx container:

Author: ```suggestion
In this case, you will always need to run Flatpak commands inside the `apx` container:
```

```bash
apx run flatpak install flathub org.gnome.gedit
```

## Configure Flathub

> Flatpak needs to know where to look for applications. The default and most popular repository for installing Flatpaks are Flathub, which can get added using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flatpak needs to know where to look for applications. The default and most popular repository for installing Flatpaks is Flathub, which you can add using the following command:
```

```bash
flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists --user flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
```

**_NOTE_**: The `--user` flag, which tells Flatpak to install applications only for the current user, is needed because the root partitions in Vanilla OS are small-sized and must get updated in a transactional way only.

## Install an application

> There are two ways to install a Flatpak application: using _GNOME Software or through the command line_.

Author: ```suggestion
There are two ways to install a Flatpak applications using _GNOME Software or through the command line_.
```
